Attention:
You may file Forms W-2 and W-3 electronically on the SSA’s Employer
W-2 Filing Instructions and Information web page, which is also accessible
at www.socialsecurity.gov/employer. You can create fill-in versions of
Forms W-2 and W-3 for filing with SSA. You may also print out copies for
filing with state or local governments, distribution to your employees, and
for your records.
Note: Copy A of this form is provided for informational purposes only. Copy A appears in
red, similar to the official IRS form. The official printed version of this IRS form is scannable,
but the online version of it, printed from this website, is not. Do not print and file Copy A
downloaded from this website with the SSA; a penalty may be imposed for filing forms that
can’t be scanned. See the penalties section in the current General Instructions for Forms
W-2 and W-3, available at www.irs.gov/w2, for more information.
Please note that Copy B and other copies of this form, which appear in black, may be
downloaded, filled in, and printed and used to satisfy the requirement to provide the
information to the recipient.
To order official IRS information returns such as Forms W-2 and W-3, which include a
scannable Copy A for filing, go to IRS’ Online Ordering for Information Returns and
Employer Returns page, or visit www.irs.gov/orderforms and click on Employer and
Information returns. We’ll mail you the scannable forms and any other products you order.
See IRS Publications 1141, 1167, and 1179 for more information about printing these tax
forms.
a Employee’s social security number
22222
OMB No. 1545-0029
b Employer identification number (EIN) 1 Wages, tips, other compensation 2 Federal income tax withheld
c Employer’s name, address, and ZIP code 3 Social security wages 4 Social security tax withheld
5 Medicare wages and tips 6 Medicare tax withheld
7 Social security tips 8 Allocated tips
d Control number 9 10 Dependent care benefits
11 Nonqualified plans
e Employee’s first name and initial Last name Suff. 12a
13 S em ta p tu lo to y r e y e R pl e a t n irement T si h c i k rd p - a p y arty C d o e
12b
14a Other C d o e
12c
Co
de
12d
14b Treasury Tipped Occupation Code(s) C d o e
f Employee’s address and ZIP code
15 State Employer’s state ID number 16 State wages, tips, etc. 17 State income tax 18 Local wages, tips, etc. 19 Local income tax 20 Locality name
W-2 2026 Department of the Treasury—Internal Revenue Service
Wage and Tax Statement
Form
Copy 1—For State, City, or Local Tax Department
Future developments. For the latest information about Corrections. If your name, SSN, or address is incorrect, correct
developments related to Form W-2, such as legislation enacted Copies B, C, and 2 and ask your employer to correct your
after it was published, go to www.irs.gov/FormW2. employment record. Be sure to ask the employer to file Form
W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax Statement, with the SSA to
Notice to Employee correct any name, SSN, or money amount error reported to the
SSA on Form W-2. Be sure to get your copies of Form W-2c
Do you have to file? Refer to the Form 1040 instructions to
from your employer for all corrections made so you may file
determine if you are required to file a tax return. Even if you
them with your tax return. If your name and SSN are correct but
don’t have to file a tax return, you may be eligible for a refund if
aren’t the same as shown on your social security card, you
box 2 shows an amount or if you are eligible for any credit.
should ask for a new card that displays your correct name at
Earned income tax credit (EITC). You may be able to take the any SSA office or by calling 800-772-1213. You may also visit
EITC for 2026 if your adjusted gross income (AGI) is less than a the SSA website at www.SSA.gov.
certain amount. The amount of the credit is based on income
Cost of employer-sponsored health coverage (if such cost is
and family size. Workers without children could qualify for a
provided by the employer). The reporting in box 12, using
smaller credit. You and any qualifying children must have valid
code DD, of the cost of employer-sponsored health coverage is
social security numbers (SSNs). You can’t take the EITC if your
for your information only. The amount reported with code DD
investment income is more than the specified amount for 2026
is not taxable.
or if income is earned for services provided while you were an
inmate at a penal institution. For 2026 income limits and more Credit for excess taxes. If you had more than one employer in
information, visit www.irs.gov/EITC. See also Pub. 596. Any 2026 and more than $11,439.00 in social security and/or Tier 1
EITC that is more than your tax liability is refunded to you, railroad retirement (RRTA) taxes were withheld, you may be able
but only if you file a tax return. to claim a credit for the excess against your federal income tax.
See the Form 1040 instructions. If you had more than one
Employee’s social security number (SSN). For your
railroad employer and more than $6,717.90 in Tier 2 RRTA tax
protection, this form may show only the last four digits of your
was withheld, you may be able to claim a refund on Form 843.
SSN. However, your employer has reported your complete SSN
See the Instructions for Form 843.
to the IRS and the Social Security Administration (SSA).
(See also Instructions for Employee on the back of Copy C.)
Clergy and religious workers. If you aren’t subject to social
security and Medicare taxes, see Pub. 517.
